On Valkynaz Nokvroz

To Galeria Hexos, Chief Consigliere of the House Hexos Trade Consortium

From Fortis Scaeva, House Hexos Chief of Operations

Well, dear sister, that could have gone better.

I just returned from a rather terrifying conversation with the high commander of Ardent Hope, an inflexible Dremora by the name of Valkynaz Nokvroz. Apologies—I know how confusing you still find the Dremora and their outlandish conventions. Nokvroz is his name, and Valkynaz is his title. Think of it as something between "prince" and "general" and you'll be close. Anyway, Nokvroz commands the most powerful fortress in the Deadlands. He's one of Mehrunes Dagon's most important servants, and he knows it.

Anyway. You might recall we recently sent Junior Trader Falvior Stolin with a crew and wagon to Wretched Spire for a load of malignant barb-blight roots, which some of the locals gather for us. (You know what kind of profits that plant brings from the Telvanni mages!) Falvior's team never returned, so I headed out to Wretched Spire to investigate. There I learned that our employees were taken prisoner by a patrol of Dremora shortly after they departed with their load. They were marched off to Ardent Hope. I made some arrangements with our usual facilitators, and obtained a writ of safe passage to negotiate Falvior's release.

I met Nokvroz in the citadel's audience hall, which frankly would put some throne rooms in Tamriel to shame. The Valkynaz stands a head taller than any other Dremora I've ever met, with broad shoulders and red eyes that positively glitter with contempt for his lessers. Many of the Kyn are stern—cruel, even—but rarely have I felt such pure malice. Even with my promise of safe passage, I found myself wondering whether I would leave the chamber alive.

"Well?" Nokvroz said by way of greeting. "My subordinates tell me that you are some sort of merchant and you wish to make a deal with me. I have no patience for either mortals or merchants, so speak swiftly."

I decided to skip the pleasantries. "Yes, Valkynaz. I represent House Hexos of Fargrave. Your warriors detained some of our retainers near Wretched Spire—Falvior Stolin and three others. I am here to seek their release."

"No." Nokvroz stroked the black horns jutting from his chin, but did not seem amused in the least. "They are where they belong. I only spared their lives so they might toil for Prince Dagon."

Ah-ha, I thought. I'd heard that the Valkynaz was new to his post (in Dremora terms, anyway), having taken command of Ardent Hope after the mysterious disappearance of his predecessor. I figured he was looking to establish some new expectations for the sort of bribes and fees we would need to pay to operate in territory he controlled. "Surely we can offer something of greater value than four common laborers in exchange for their return," I said. "Customarily," I began, but Nokvroz cut me off.

"I want nothing from you or your so-called house."

That flummoxed me. "Then why did you take them?"

Nokvroz glowered at me. "It offended my sensibilities to hear of mortals wandering this realm with impunity. I will not permit it."

"This has never been a problem before!" I protested.

"What has gone before is no concern of mine," he said. "If you care about the mortals in your employ, keep them out of the Deadlands."

"What about the Order of the Waking Flame?" I asked. "Your legions permit them to come and go from their various holdings throughout the Deadlands."

"Do not speak to me about the Waking Flame!" Nokvroz snarled and shot to his feet; I retreated three steps without even thinking about it. "It pleases Lord Dagon to let a few crumbs fall from his table for those sniveling mortals. I myself have no use for them. The moment my lord tires of playing with mortal cults, I shall gladly purge them all from the Deadlands. Just as I have purged your foolish merchants. Or do you find my decisions unjust?"

I had a feeling that, safe passage or not, I was very close to joining poor Falvior in whatever awful situation he was stuck in. I would like to think that we do everything we can to help out employees who get into that sort of trouble, but talking the Valkynaz into making me his newest drudge wouldn't help anybody. Least of all, me.

"Of course not, Valkynaz," I replied with care. "I thank you for making your position clear. I will see to it that no more of our people trouble you here. With your permission?"

Nokvroz made a small sound of disgust, and waved me away without another word.

So, there it is. Given the Valkynaz's uncooperative attitude, I think we will need to modify our operations in the Deadlands. Until we figure out which local commanders can be persuaded to look the other way, we'd better use intermediaries and freelancers. And I'm afraid we will need to make the customary payments to the next of kin for Falvior Stolin and his team.

I don't think we're going to see them again.