Path of the Ironclad

By Doombringer Jayurth

Greetings in the name of Mehrunes Dagon, Prince of Destruction!

A hard road lies ahead for we who serve the Waking Flame. The task of remaking a broken world must begin with sweeping away the unworthy. But weak and foolish as our enemies may be, they are many and we are few. This world will not be ended without a great battle. The last battle. A battle in which all the creatures of Nirn must choose a side. This is the work that the Father of Cataclysm has called us to. Hail to Mehrunes Dagon!

Now, no battle can be won without soldiers. And while the Prince of Destruction commands legions of Daedra, we mortals have our part to play. The Waking Flame must be at the forefront of the fight for Nirn, leading the way with unflinching valor and unwavering zeal. Only thus can we prove to Mehrunes Dagon that we are his loyal servants, worthy of participating in his great design.

The special honor of leading the charge, of breaking the ranks of the unbeliever armies, naturally belongs to our strongest and most determined warriors. These are our ironclads, men and women whose physical strength is matched by their devotion to the Lord of Fire and Flood.

Zeal is the armor of the faithful, but Waking Flame ironclads are also protected by Daedric steel as strong and impervious as their faith. The moment an ironclad dons their mighty helm, they set aside the doubts and weaknesses of lesser mortals. They become living engines of destruction, thunderbolts with which the Prince of Destruction smites his foes! Implacable, indefatigable, inevitable—no foe can stand against an ironclad whose faith is strong! And when glorious destruction claims an ironclad at last, it finds Dagon's champion surrounded by the crushed and broken corpses of the unbelievers.

This is the path of the ironclad, initiate. If your faith matches your strength, then it can be your path as well. Hail to the Prince of Destruction! Hail to Mehrunes Dagon!

(Bring this pamphlet to your ranking disastrix when you decide to volunteer.)