The Horror of Castle Xyr, Part 2

Clavides pushes the high-backed bench out of the way, revealing the large mounted shield at the base of the armor.
 
CLAVIDES: Yes, he does. You covered it up with that bench.
 
ANARA: I didn't do it on purpose, serjo! I was just cleaning! I see that armor every day, serjo, and b'vek I swear I ain't never noticed the shield before!
 
CLAVIDES: It's fine, Anara, I believe you.

Clavides pushes on the shield and it pulls back to reveal a tunnel down. 

CLAVIDES: It appears that Sedura Kena Telvanni Hordalf Xyr does have a need for a secret passage. Could you get me a torch?
 
ANARA: B'vek, I ain't never seen that before!

Anara takes a torch from the wall, and hands it to Clavides. Clavides enters the tunnel. 

CLAVIDES: Wait here.

Anara watches Clavides disappear down the tunnel. She appears agitated, and finally runs for the front door. When she opens it, ULLIS, an Argonian lieutenant in the Imperial guard is standing at the entrance. She screams. 

ULLIS: I'm sorry to frighten you.
 
ANARA: Not now! Go away!
 
ULLIS: I'm afraid the Captain wouldn't like that, miss.
 
ANARA: You're … with the Captain? Blessed mother.

Clavides comes out of the tunnel, white-faced. It takes him a few moments to speak. 

ULLIS: Captain? What's down there?
 
CLAVIDES (to Anara): Did you know your master's a necromancer? That your cellar is filled with bodies?

Anara faints. Ullis carries her to the bench and lays her down. 

ULLIS: Let me see, serjo.
 
CLAVIDES: You'll see soon enough. We're going to need every soldier from the post here to cart away all the corpses. Ullis, I've seen enough battles, but I've never seen anything like this. No two are alike. Khajiiti, Sload, Dunmer, Cyrodiil, Breton, Nord, burned alive, poisoned, electrified, melted, torn apart, turned inside out, ripped to shreds and sewn back up together.
 
ULLIS: You think the Ashlander escaped, that's what happened?
 
CLAVIDES: I don't know. Why would someone do something like this, Ullis?

There is a knock on the door. Clavides answers it. A young Argonian woman, ZOLLASSA, is standing, holding a package and a letter. 

ZOLLASSA: Good morning, you're not Lord Xyr, are you?
 
CLAVIDES: No. What do you have there?
 
ZOLLASSA: A letter and a package I'm supposed to deliver to him. Will he be back shortly?
 
CLAVIDES: I don't believe so. Who gave you the package to deliver?
 
ZOLLASSA: My teacher at the college, Kema Warvim. He has a bad leg, so he asked me to bring these to his lordship. Actually, to tell you the truth, I was supposed to deliver them last night, but I was busy.
 
ULLIS: Greetings, sister. We'll give the package to his lordship when we see him.
 
ZOLLASSA: Ah, hail, brother. I had heard there was a handsome Argonian in Scath Anud. Unfortunately, I promised Kema Warvim that I'd deliver the package directly to his lordship's hands. I'm already late, I can't just—
 
CLAVIDES: We're Imperial Guard, miss. We will take the package and the letter.

Zollassa reluctantly hands Clavides the letter and the package. She turns to go. 

ULLIS: You're at the college, if we need to see you?
 
ZOLLASSA: Yes. Fair tidings, brother.
 
ULLIS: Goodnight, sister.

Clavides opens the package as Zollassa exits. It is a book with many loose sheets. 

CLAVIDES: It appears we've found the missing book. Delivered to our very hands.

Clavides begins to read the book, silently to himself. 

ULLIS (to himself, very pleased): Another Argonian in Scath Anud. And a pretty one, at that. I hope we weren't too rude to her. I'm tired of all these women with their smooth, dry skin, it would be wonderful if we could meet when I'm off duty.

While Ullis talks, he opens the letter and reads it. 

ULLIS (continued): She looks like she's from the south, like me. You know, Argonians from northern Black Marsh are… much… less….

Ullis continues reading, transfixed by the letter. Clavides skips to the back of the book, and reads the last sentences.