The Library of Dusk: Rare Books

Vault Twelve: Rare Book Collection

Access FORBIDDEN 

Items:

"The Athedorix Conundrums" by Mymophonus
—	Nine portentous questions, with answers known to drive readers insane.

"The Hosiric Lays" by Unknown (poss. Calisos or Morachellis)
—	Tales in epic verse recounting the Atmoran folklore of the Cyro-Nords.

"The Gwylim Praxis" by the Aureate Serpent
—	Methods of draining magicka from intelligent creatures at the moment of death.

"The Third Scroll of Baan Dar" by Arkan
—	How the great thief stole the "37th Lesson" from Vivec—before he could write it.

"The Letters of Alessia and Belharza"
—	Intimate correspondence between the First Empress and the Man-Bull.

"Eleven OTHER Edicts of the Ten Ancestors" by the Heretic of Lindai
—	A parody of the classic "Eleven Edicts" supposing the Ten Ancestors had worshiped Auri-El rather than Daedra.

"Numidium Blueprints" by Kagrenac the Engineer
—	ALL SCROLLS MISSING—REWARD FOR RECOVERY

"Conversations with the Heart of Lorkhan" by Pelinal Whitestrake
—	Ruminations on the nature of the Aurbis. Warning: Probably apocryphal.

"The Southern Coast as Far as the Eastern Sea" by Topal the Pilot
—	Sea logs of the great Aldmeri explorer.

"Insights" (pristine copy) by Shalidor the Arch-Mage
—	A disquisition on the origin and nature of Dragons.

"The Alessian Doctrines: Original Manuscript" by the Monkey Prophet Maruhk
—	Screed defining the dogma of the non-Elven nature of Akatosh.

"Studies in Aprocrypha" by Morian Zenas
—	A summary of truths learned in Apocrypha that Zenas refuses to believe. In fourteen volumes. 

"Epistolary Acumen" by The Transparent One
—	Forbidden invocations of inimical Daedra.

"Grimoire" by Corvus Direnni
—	Spell secrets of the mighty conjurer.

"The Tract of Merid-Nunda" (complete) by Anonymous
—	Revelations on the nature of Meridia and the mistake of conflating her with the Star-Orphans.

"The Lusty Argonian Maid" (complete play)—Traditional
—	Copy out for repair—accidentally damaged by Librarian.

"The Art of Love and Swordplay" by Fjokki the Bard
— The popular autobiography of the frisky Nord, Fjokki, whose exploits are unbelievable but strangely compelling. Not rare, but a perennial favorite here at the Library.