The Horror of Castle Xyr, Part 1

By Baloth-Kul 

A One Act Play 

Dramatis Personae
Clavides, Captain of the Imperial Guard. Cyrodilic. 
Anara, a Dunmeri maid. 
Ullis, a Lieutenant of the Imperial Guard. Argonian. 
Zollassa, a young Argonian mage 

Act I
Late evening. The play opens in the interior Great Entrance Hall of a castle in Scath Anud, replete with fine furnishings and tapestries. Torches provide the only illumination. In the center of the foyer is a great iron door, the main entrance to the castle. The staircase up to the landing above is next to this door. On stage left is the door to the library, which is currently closed. On stage right is a huge suit of armor, twenty feet tall, nearly touching the ceiling of the room. Though no one can be seen, there is the sound of a woman singing coming from the library door. A loud thumping knock on the iron front door stops the woman's singing. The door to the library opens and ANARA, a common-looking maid, comes out and hurries to open the front door. CLAVIDES, a handsome man in Imperial garb stands there. 

ANARA: Good evening to you, serjo.
 
CLAVIDES: Good evening. Is your master at home?
 
ANARA: No, serjo, it's only me here. My master Sedura Kena Telvanni Hordalf Xyr is at his winter estate. Is there something I can do for you?
 
CLAVIDES: Possibly. Would you mind if I came in?
 
ANARA: Not at all, serjo. Please. May I offer you some flin?

Clavides comes into the Hall and looks around. 

CLAVIDES: No thank you. What's your name?
 
ANARA: Anara, serjo.
 
CLAVIDES: Anara, when did your master leave Scath Anud?
 
ANARA: More than a fortnight ago. That's why it's only me in the castle, serjo. All the other servants and slaves who tend to his lordship travel with him. Is there something wrong?
 
CLAVIDES: Yes, there is. Do you know an Ashlander by the name of Sul-Kharifa?
 
ANARA: No, serjo. I don't know no one by that name.
 
CLAVIDES: Then you aren't likely to now. He's dead. He was found a few hours ago dying of frostbite in the Ashlands. He was hysterical, nearly incomprehensible, but among his last words were "castle" and "Xyr."
 
ANARA: Dying of frostbite in summertide in the Ashlands? B'vek, that's strange. I suppose it's possible that my master knew this man, but being an Ashlander and my master being of the House of Telvanni, well, if you'll pardon me for being flippant, serjo, I don't think they coulda been friends.
 
CLAVIDES: That is your master's library? Would you mind if I looked in?
 
ANARA: Please, serjo, go wherever you want. We got nothing to hide. We're loyal Imperial subjects.
 
CLAVIDES: As, I hear, are all Telvanni.

(Note from the playwright: this line should be delivered without sarcasm. Trust the audience to laugh—it never fails, regardless of the politics of the locals.) 

Clavides enters the library and looks over the books. 

CLAVIDES: The library needs dusting.
 
ANARA: Yes, serjo. I was just doing that when you knocked at the door.
 
CLAVIDES: I'm grateful for that. If you had finished, I wouldn't notice the space in the dust where a rather large book has recently been removed. Your master is a wizard, it seems.
 
ANARA: No, serjo. I mean, he studies a lot, but he don't cast no spells, if that's what you mean by wizard. He's a kena, went to college and everything. You know, now that I think about it, I know what happened to that book. One of the other kenas from the college been round yesterday, and borrowed a couple of books. He's a friend of the master, so I thought it'd be all fine.
 
CLAVIDES: This kena, was his name Warvim?
 
ANARA: Coulda been. I don't remember.
 
CLAVIDES: There is a suspected necromancer at the college named Kena Warvim we arrested last night. We don't know what he was doing at the college, but it was something illegal, that's for certain. Was that the kena who borrowed the book? A little fellow, a cripple with a withered leg?
 
ANARA: No, serjo, it weren't the kena from yesterday. He was a big fella who could walk, so I noticed.
 
CLAVIDES: I'm going to have a look around the rest of the house, if you don't mind.

 Clavides goes up the stairs, and delivers the following dialogue from the landing and the rooms above. Anara continues straightening up the downstairs, moving a high-backed bench in front of the armor to scrub the floor. 

ANARA: Can I ask, serjo, what you're looking for? Maybe I could help you.
 
CLAVIDES: Are these all the rooms in the castle? No secret passages?
 
ANARA (laughing): Oh, serjo, what would Sedura Kena Telvanni Hordalf Xyr want with secret passages?
 
CLAVIDES (looking at the armor): Your master is a big man.
 
ANARA (laughing): Oh, serjo, don't tease. That's giant armor, just for decoration. My master slew that giant ten years ago, and kind of keeps it for a souvenir.
 
CLAVIDES: That's right, I remember hearing something about that when I first took my post here. It was someone named Xyr who killed the giant, but I didn't think the first name was Hordalf. Memory fades I'm afraid. What was the giant's name?
 
ANARA: I'm afraid I don't remember, serjo.
 
CLAVIDES: I do. It was Torfang. "I got out of Torfang's Shield."
 
ANARA: I don't understand, serjo. Torfang's shield?

Clavides runs down the stairs, and examines the armor. 

CLAVIDES: Sul-Kharifa said something about getting out of Torfang's shield. I thought he was just raving, out of his mind.
 
ANARA: But he ain't got a shield, serjo.